[update] Connect to TimescaleDB using Azure Data Studio (#1427)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/how-to-guides/connecting/azure-data-studio.md

1.  Click the name of the service you want to connect to see the connection
    information. Take a note of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database Name`, `User`, and
    `Password`.
1.  Start `Azure Data Studio`.
1.  Click the `New Connection` icon in the `SERVERS`page.
1.  In the form that pops up, go to `Connection type` and select `PostgreSQL`
    from the drop-down. Fill in the fields using the server name, user
    name, port, and password for your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service. For
    description of the settings in `Connection Details`,
    see [Connection Detais][connection-details].

   <img class="main-content__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/mst_connection_screen.png"alt="Connection screen for Managed Service for TimescaleDB service"/>

1.  Click `Advanced`.
1.  Type the port number in the `Port` field and click `OK`.
1.  Select `Connect`.

After successfully connecting, your server opens in the `SERVERS`sidebar.

</procedure>

### Settings in the `Connection Details`

   |Setting|Example value|Description|
   | ------------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |

>    |Server name|localhost, postgresql.example.com, <REMOTE_HOST>.tsdb.cloud.timescale.com, <REMOTE_HOST>.timescaledb.io |The fully qualified server name.    The host name of your Timescale Cloud service or Managed Service for TimescaleDB service.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |Server name|localhost, postgresql.example.com, <REMOTE_HOST>.tsdb.cloud.timescale.com, <REMOTE_HOST>.timescaledb.io |The fully qualified server name. The host name of your Timescale Cloud service or Managed Service for TimescaleDB service.|
```

   |Authentication type|Password|The authentication type to log in with|

>    |User name|postgres, tsdbadmin|The user name you want to log in with. Use `tsdbadmin` for Timescale Cloud service and Managed Service for TimescaleDB      service|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |User name|postgres, tsdbadmin|The user name you want to log in with. Use `tsdbadmin` for Timescale Cloud service and Managed Service for TimescaleDB service|
```

   |Password|*password*|The password for the account you are logging in with|
   |Remember password|*Check*|Check this box if you don't want to enter the password each time you connect.|

>    |Database name|\<Default\>, defaultdb|This option connnects to default database. The default database on your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service      is `defaultdb`. You can also specify the name of the database to connect to.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |Database name|\<Default\>, defaultdb|This option connnects to default database. The default database on your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service is `defaultdb`. You can also specify the name of the database to connect to.|
```

    Fill in the fields using the server name, database,user name, and password for your 
    TimescaleDB instance. For more information about these settings, see 
    [the connection details section][connection-details].
1.  Click `Advanced`.
1.  In the `Port` field, type the port number, and click `OK`.
1.  Click `Connect`.

    <img class="maincontent__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/local_remote_connection_screen.png"alt="Connecting to TimescaleDB using Azure Data Studio"/>

</procedure>

### Connecting to Timescale Cloud with Azure Data Studio

<procedure>

1.  Sign in to the [Timescale Cloud portal][tsc-portal].
1.  In the `Services` tab, find the service you want to connect to, and check
    it is marked as `Running`.
1.  Click the name of the service you want to connect to, and take a note 
     of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database name`, and `Username`.
1.  Navigate to the `Operations` tab, and click `Reset password`. You can choose
    your own password for the service, or allow Timescale Cloud to generate a
    secure password for you. Take a note of your new password.
1.  Start `Azure Data Studio`.

> 1.  In the `SERVERS`page, click `New Connection`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  On the `SERVERS` page, click `New Connection`.
```

1.  Click `Advanced`.
1.  In the `Port` field, type the port number, and click `OK`.
1.  Click `Connect`.

    <img class="main-content__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/timescale_cloud_connection_screen.png"alt="Connecting to Timescale Cloud using Azure Data Studio"/>

</procedure>

### Connecting to Managed Service for TimescaleDB with Azure Data Studio

<highlight type="important">
To ensure a secure network access to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
service, make sure you add the IP address of the machine running Azure Data 
Studio to the `Allowed IP Addresses`. For more information about network
security in Managed Service for TimescaleDB, see 
[the security section][security-overview].
</highlight>

<procedure>

1.  Sign in to the [Managed Service for TimescaleDB portal][mst-portal].
1.  In the `Services` tab, find the service you want to connect to, and check
    it is marked as `Running`.
1.  Click the name of the service you want to connect to see the connection
    information. Take a note of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database Name`, `User`, and
    `Password`.
1.  Start `Azure Data Studio`.

> 1.  In the `SERVERS`page, click `New Connection`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  On the `SERVERS` page, click `New Connection`.
```

---
title: Azure Data Studio
excerpt: Connect to your TimescaleDB database with Microsoft Azure Data Studio
product: mst, cloud, timescaledb
keywords: [connect]
---

# Connect to TimescaleDB using Azure Data Studio

Azure Data Studio is a cross-platform database tool for data professionals using
on-premises and cloud data platforms on Windows, macOS, and Linux. You can
connect to TimescaleDB hosted on your local machine or on a remote server. You

> can also connect to Timescale Cloud service and Managed Service for TimescaleDB
> service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can also connect to Timescale Cloud, and Managed Service for TimescaleDB
services.
```

## Before you begin

*   Download and install [Azure Data Studio][ms-azure-data-studio].
*   Install the [PostgreSQL extension for Azure Data Studio][postgresql-azure-data-studio].

> ### Connecting to TimescaleDB hosted locally, or on a remote server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Connecting to on-premise TimescaleDB using Azure Data Studio
```

<procedure>

1.  Start `Azure Data Studio`.

> 1.  Click the `New Connection` icon in the `SERVERS`page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `SERVERS` page, click `New Connection`.
```

> 1.  In the form that pops up, go to `Connection type` and select `PostgreSQL`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `FIXME` dialog, navigate to `Connection type`, and select `PostgreSQL`.
```

>     from the drop-down. Fill in the fields using the server name, user name, and
>     password for your TimescaleDB server. For description of the settings in
>     `Connection Details`, see [Connection Details][connection-details]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Fill in the fields using the server name, user name, and password for your 
    TimescaleDB instance. For more information about retrieving these settings, see 
    [the connection details section][connection-details].
```

>    <img class="maincontent__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/local_remote_connection_screen.png"alt="Connection screen for local or remote timescaledb"/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <img class="maincontent__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/local_remote_connection_screen.png"alt="Connecting to TimescaleDB using Azure Data Studio"/>
```

Reviewer 2: Move this image to after the steps, but before the closing procedure tag.

1.  Click `Advanced`.

> 1.  Type the port number in the `Port` field and click `OK`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Port` field, type the port number, and click `OK`.
```

1.  Click `Connect`.

> After successfully connecting, your server opens in the `SERVERS`sidebar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

No result statements!

</procedure>

> ### Connecting to Timescale Cloud service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Connecting to Timescale Cloud with Azure Data Studio
```

<procedure>

1.  Sign in to the [Timescale Cloud portal][tsc-portal].
1.  In the `Services` tab, find the service you want to connect to, and check
    it is marked as `Running`.

> 1.  Click the name of the service you want to connect to see the connection
>     information. Take a note of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database name`, and `Username`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Click the name of the service you want to connect to, and take a note 
     of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database name`, and `Username`.
```

1.  Navigate to the `Operations` tab, and click `Reset password`. You can choose
    your own password for the service, or allow Timescale Cloud to generate a
    secure password for you. Take a note of your new password.
1.  Start `Azure Data Studio`.

> 1.  Click the `New Connection` icon in the `SERVERS`page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `SERVERS`page, click `New Connection`.
```

> 1.  In the form that pops up, go to `Connection type`and select `PostgreSQL`from
>     the drop-down. Fill in the fields using the server name, user name, port, and
>     password for your TimescaleDB Cloud service. For description of the settings
>     in `Connection Details`, see [Connection Details][connection-details].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `FIXME` dialog, navigate to `Connection type`and select `PostgreSQL`. 
    Complete the form using the server name, user name, port, and password 
    for your Timescale Cloud service.
```

Reviewer 2: Considering the procedure starts by telling them how to retrieve those details, we probably don't need to provide a link to that info. Alternatively, of course, you could include the link, but don't bother walking them through doing it first. Up to you.

Reviewer 3: @Loquacity what do you mean by _`FIXME` dialog_?
![Selection_092](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10092181/184129293-32a3182f-574f-40a2-897a-a7ee96d11d2e.png)

Reviewer 3: Maybe add something to the `server name` field to indicate it's the same thing as `host`.
`You can find the server name information as "host" in Timescale Cloud.` or something like this

Reviewer 3: also "Database field" needs to be filled out as well (it's always `tsdb` for TS Cloud)

>    <img class="main-content__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/timescale_cloud_connection_screen.png"alt="Connection screen for Timescale Cloud service"/>

Reviewer 2: Move image to after steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <img class="main-content__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/timescale_cloud_connection_screen.png"alt="Connecting to Timescale Cloud using Azure Data Studio"/>
```

1.  Click `Advanced`.

> 1.  Type the port number in the `Port` field and click `OK`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Port` field, type the port number, and click `OK`.
```

Reviewer 3: Additionally, maybe select `SSL Require` mode as well here. Even though it works without it.

> 1.  Select `Connect`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Connect`.
```

After successfully connecting, your server opens in the `SERVERS`sidebar.

</procedure>

> ### Connecting to Managed Service for TimescaleDB service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Connecting to Managed Service for TimescaleDB with Azure Data Studio
```

> <highlight type="note">

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<highlight type="important">
```

> To ensure a secure network access to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
> service, add the IP address of your local machine on which you have installed
> Azure Data Studio to `Allowed IP Addresses`. For more information about network
> security see, [Security overview][security-overview].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To ensure a secure network access to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
service, make sure you add the IP address of the machine running Azure Data 
Studio to the `Allowed IP Addresses`. For more information about network
security in Managed Service for TimescaleDB, see 
[the security section][security-overview].
```

</highlight>

<procedure>

1.  Sign in to the [Managed Service for TimescaleDB portal][mst-portal].
1.  In the `Services` tab, find the service you want to connect to, and check
    it is marked as `Running`.
1.  Click the name of the service you want to connect to see the connection
    information. Take a note of the `Host`, `Port`, `Database Name`, `User`, and
    `Password`.
1.  Start `Azure Data Studio`.

> 1.  Click the `New Connection` icon in the `SERVERS`page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `SERVERS`page, click `New Connection`.
```

1.  In the form that pops up, go to `Connection type` and select `PostgreSQL`
    from the drop-down. Fill in the fields using the server name, user
    name, port, and password for your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service. For
    description of the settings in `Connection Details`,

>     see [Connection Detais][connection-details].

Reviewer 2: Same as the others ☝️

>    <img class="main-content__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/mst_connection_screen.png"alt="Connection screen for Managed Service for TimescaleDB service"/>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   <img class="main-content__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/mst_connection_screen.png"alt="Connecting to Managed Service for TimescaleDB using Azure Data Studio"/>
```

And move it to after the steps 👇

1.  Click `Advanced`.

> 1.  Type the port number in the `Port` field and click `OK`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  In the `Port` field, type the port number, and click `OK`.
```

> 1.  Select `Connect`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Connect`.
```

> After successfully connecting, your server opens in the `SERVERS`sidebar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

</procedure>

### Settings in the `Connection Details`

> 

Reviewer 2: Add an intro sentence or two.

   |Setting|Example value|Description|

>    | ------------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   |-|-|-|
```

And etc, through table 👇

*   Download and install [Azure Data Studio][ms-azure-data-studio].
*   Install the [PostgreSQL extension for Azure Data Studio][postgresql-azure-data-studio].

> ### Connecting to TimescaleDB hosted locally, or on a remote server

Reviewer: I think this should stay an `h3`, because it's not a subheading of `Before you begin`

</procedure>

> ### Connecting to Timescale Cloud service

Reviewer: same comment re: heading level

</procedure>

> ### Connecting to Managed Service for TimescaleDB service

Reviewer: same comment re: heading level

1.  Start `Azure Data Studio`.
1.  Click the `New Connection` icon in the `SERVERS`page.
1.  In the form that pops up, go to `Connection type` and select `PostgreSQL`

>     from the drop-down. To connect to the TimescaleDB hosted on your local
>     machine or on a remote server. Fill in the fields using the server name, user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    from the drop-down. Fill in the fields using the server name, user
```

    name, port, and password for your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service. For
    description of the settings in `Connection Details`,
    see [Connection Detais][connection-details].

   <img class="main-content__illustration"src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/mst_connection_screen.png"alt="Connection screen for Managed Service for TimescaleDB service"/>

1.  Select `Connect`.

After successfully connecting, your server opens in the `SERVERS`sidebar.

</procedure>

> ### Settings in the `Connection Details`

Reviewer: same comment re: heading level

   |Setting|Example value|Description|
   | ------------ | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------- |
   |Server name|localhost, postgresql.example.com, <REMOTE_HOST>.tsdb.cloud.timescale.com, <REMOTE_HOST>.timescaledb.io |The fully qualified server name. The host name of your Timescale Cloud service or Managed Service for TimescaleDB service.|
   |Authentication type|Password|The authentication type to log in with|
   |User name|postgres, tsdbadmin|The user name you want to log in with|
   |Password|*password*|The password for the account you are logging in with|
   |Remember password|*Check*|Check this box if you don't want to enter the password each time you connect.|

>    |Database name|\<Default\>, defaultdb|This option connnects the database that you specify.The default database on your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service is `defaultdb`.|

Reviewer: Is it still `defaultdb`? I really have no idea, but I seem to recall Mike saying it's `tsdb`

Author: I just picked the name that appeared in the service. I have no idea. @alexthinath  could you please confirm the name of the default database in mst.

Author: @alexthinath confirmed that it was `tsdb` . Just updated it to `tsdb`.

Author: updated it to `tsdb`

>    |Database name|\<Default\>, defaultdb|This option connnects the database that you specify.The default database on your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service is `defaultdb`.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   |Database name|\<Default\>, defaultdb|This option connnects the database that you specify. The default database on your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service is `defaultdb`.|
```

   |Server group| \<Default\> |This option lets you assign this connection to a specific server group you create.|
   |Name (optional)|*leave blank*|This option lets you specify a friendly name for your server|

[ms-azure-data-studio]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/azure-data-studio/download-azure-data-studio?view=sql-server-ver16#install-azure-data-studio
[postgresql-azure-data-studio]: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/azure-data-studio/extensions/postgres-extension?view=sql-server-ver16
[tsc-portal]: https://console.cloud.timescale.com/
[mst-portal]: https://portal.managed.timescale.com

> [connection-details]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/connecting/azure-data-studio/#settings-in-the-connection-details/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[connection-details]: #settings-in-the-connection-details
```
